---
Id: 1007
Title: Javascript Concepts - Part2
Author: Soumyajit
Tags: Interview Javascript
Abstract: Learning some of the fundamental concepts of Javascript and questions asked in javascript interview.
HeaderImage: /BL-1006/header.png
isPublished: true
---

## Explain "hoisting" {#Explain-hoisting}

Hoisting is JavaScript's default behavior of moving all declarations to the top of the current scope.
Note that the declaration is not actually moved - the JavaScript engine parses the declarations during compilation and becomes aware of declarations and their scopes.

```
console.log(foo); // undefined
var foo = 1;
console.log(foo); // 1
```

Function declarations have the body hoisted while the function expressions only has the variable declaration hoisted.

```
// Function Declaration
console.log(foo); // [Function: foo]
foo(); // 'FOOOOO'
function foo() {
  console.log('FOOOOO');
}
console.log(foo); // [Function: foo]

// Function Expression
console.log(bar); // undefined
bar(); // Uncaught TypeError: bar is not a function
var bar = function () {
  console.log('BARRRR');
};
console.log(bar); // [Function: bar]
```

Variables defined with let and const are hoisted to the top of the block, but not initialized.Meaning that the block of code is aware of the variable, but it cannot be used until it has been declared.

## What is a closure {#What-is-a-closure}

JavaScript implements a scoping mechanism named lexical scoping (or static scoping). Lexical scoping means that the accessibility of variables is determined by the position of the variables inside the nested scopes.

Simpler, the lexical scoping means that inside the inner scope you can access variables of outer scopes.

**Closures are functions that have access to the outer (enclosing) function's variables—scope chain even after the outer function has returned.**

```
function outerFunc() {
  let outerVar = 'I am outside!';
  function innerFunc() {
    console.log(outerVar); // => logs "I am outside!"
  }
  return innerFunc;
}
function exec() {
  const myInnerFunc = outerFunc();
  myInnerFunc();
}
exec();
```

Now innerFunc() is executed outside of its lexical scope, but exactly in the scope of exec() function. And what's important:
innerFunc() still has access to outerVar from its lexical scope, even being executed outside of its lexical scope.

<!-- ## JavaScript Classes {#JavaScript-Classes}

## JavaScript Rest vs Spread Operator {#JavaScript-Rest-vs-Spread-Operator} -->
