---
Id: 1004
Title: Javascript Interview Questions
Author: Soumyajit
Tags: Interview Javascript
Abstract: Learning some of the fundamental concepts of Javascript and top questions asked in javascript interview.
HeaderImage: /BL-1001/header.jpg
isPublished: false
---

## Difference between Let and Var {#Difference-between-Let-and-Var}

One of the biggest problems with declaring variables with the var keyword is that you can easily overwrite variable declarations:

```
var camper = "James";
var camper = "David";
console.log(camper);
```
In the code above, the camper variable is originally declared as James, and is then overridden to be David. The console then displays the string David.

In a small application, you might not run into this type of problem. But as your codebase becomes larger, you might accidentally overwrite a variable that you did not intend to. Because this behavior does not throw an error, searching for and fixing bugs becomes more difficult.

A keyword called let was introduced in ES6, a major update to JavaScript, to solve this potential issue with the var keyword. You'll learn about other ES6 features in later challenges.

If you replace var with let in the code above, it results in an error:
```
let camper = "James";
let camper = "David";
The error can be seen in your browser console.
```

So unlike var, when you use let, a variable with the same name can only be declared once.

Compare Scopes of the var and let Keywords

When you declare a variable with the var keyword, it is declared globally, or locally if declared inside a function.

The let keyword behaves similarly, but with some extra features. When you declare a variable with the let keyword inside a block, statement, or expression, its scope is limited to that block, statement, or expression.

For example:

var numArray = [];
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
console.log(i);
Here the console will display the values [0, 1, 2] and 3.

With the var keyword, i is declared globally. So when i++ is executed, it updates the global variable. This code is similar to the following:

var numArray = [];
var i;
for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
console.log(i);
Here the console will display the values [0, 1, 2] and 3.

This behavior will cause problems if you were to create a function and store it for later use inside a for loop that uses the i variable. This is because the stored function will always refer to the value of the updated global i variable.

var printNumTwo;
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
Here the console will display the value 3.

As you can see, printNumTwo() prints 3 and not 2. This is because the value assigned to i was updated and the printNumTwo() returns the global i and not the value i had when the function was created in the for loop. The let keyword does not follow this behavior:

let printNumTwo;
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
console.log(i);
Here the console will display the value 2, and an error that i is not defined.

i is not defined because it was not declared in the global scope. It is only declared within the for loop statement. printNumTwo() returned the correct value because three different i variables with unique values (0, 1, and 2) were created by the let keyword within the loop statement.



The const declaration has many use cases in modern JavaScript.

Some developers prefer to assign all their variables using const by default, unless they know they will need to reassign the value. Only in that case, they use let.

However, it is important to understand that objects (including arrays and functions) assigned to a variable using const are still mutable. Using the const declaration only prevents reassignment of the variable identifier.

const s = [5, 6, 7];
s = [1, 2, 3];
s[2] = 45;
console.log(s);
s = [1, 2, 3] will result in an error. The console.log will display the value [5, 6, 45].

As you can see, you can mutate the object [5, 6, 7] itself and the variable s will still point to the altered array [5, 6, 45]. Like all arrays, the array elements in s are mutable, but because const was used, you cannot use the variable identifier s to point to a different array using the assignment operator.





## Global vs Local Scope {#Global-vs-Local-Scope}
In JavaScript, scope refers to the visibility of variables. Variables which are defined outside of a function block have Global scope. This means, they can be seen everywhere in your JavaScript code.
Variables which are declared without the let or const keywords are automatically created in the global scope.
const myGlobal = 10;
function fun1() {
  // Assign 5 to oopsGlobal Here
    oopsGlobal = 5;

}

// Only change code above this line

function fun2() {
  var output = "";
  if (typeof myGlobal != "undefined") {
    output += "myGlobal: " + myGlobal;
  }
  if (typeof oopsGlobal != "undefined") {
    output += " oopsGlobal: " + oopsGlobal;
  }
  console.log(output);
}

Variables which are declared within a function, as well as the function parameters, have local scope. That means they are only visible within that function.

function myLocalScope() {
  // Only change code below this line
  let myVar
  console.log('inside myLocalScope', myVar);
}
myLocalScope();

// Run and check the console
// myVar is not defined outside of myLocalScope
console.log('outside myLocalScope', myVar); 

It is possible to have both local and global variables with the same name. When you do this, the local variable takes precedence over the global variable.

In this example:

const someVar = "Hat";

function myFun() {
  const someVar = "Head";
  return someVar;
}
The function myFun will return the string Head because the local version of the variable is present.

## Escape Sequences in Strings {#Escape-Sequences-in-Strings}

```
Code   Output
\' single quote
\" double quote
\\ backslash
\n newline
\r carriage return
\t tab
\b word boundary
\f form feed
```

In JavaScript, String values are immutable, which means that they cannot be altered once created.

For example, the following code:

let myStr = "Bob";
myStr[0] = "J";
cannot change the value of myStr to Job, because the contents of myStr cannot be altered.
Unlike strings, the entries of arrays are mutable and can be changed freely, even if the array was declared with const.


Strict equality (===) is the counterpart to the equality operator (==). However, unlike the equality operator, which attempts to convert both values being compared to a common type, the strict equality operator does not perform a type conversion.

If the values being compared have different types, they are considered unequal, and the strict equality operator will return false.

Examples

3 ===  3
3 === '3'
These conditions would return true and false respectively.

In the second example, 3 is a Number type and '3' is a String type.

The strict inequality operator (!==) is the logical opposite of the strict equality operator. It means "Strictly Not Equal" and returns false where strict equality would return true and vice versa. The strict inequality operator will not convert data types.

Examples
1 !=  2
1 != "1"
1 != '1'
1 != true
0 != false
In order, these expressions would evaluate to true, false, false, false, and false.

3 !==  3
3 !== '3'
4 !==  3
In order, these expressions would evaluate to false, true, and true.

The greater than operator (>) compares the values of two numbers. If the number to the left is greater than the number to the right, it returns true. Otherwise, it returns false.

Like the equality operator, the greater than operator will convert data types of values while comparing.

Examples

5   >  3
7   > '3'
2   >  3
'1' >  9
In order, these expressions would evaluate to true, true, false, and false.


The parseInt() function parses a string and returns an integer. It takes a second argument for the radix, which specifies the base of the number in the string. The radix can be an integer between 2 and 36.

The function call looks like:

parseInt(string, radix);
And here's an example:

const a = parseInt("11", 2);
The radix variable says that 11 is in the binary system, or base 2. This example converts the string 11 to an integer 3.





As seen in the previous challenge, const declaration alone doesn't really protect your data from mutation. To ensure your data doesn't change, JavaScript provides a function Object.freeze to prevent data mutation.

Any attempt at changing the object will be rejected, with an error thrown if the script is running in strict mode.

let obj = {
  name:"FreeCodeCamp",
  review:"Awesome"
};
Object.freeze(obj);
obj.review = "bad";
obj.newProp = "Test";
console.log(obj); 
The obj.review and obj.newProp assignments will result in errors, because our editor runs in strict mode by default, and the console will display the value { name: "FreeCodeCamp", review: "Awesome" }.


Use the Rest Parameter with Function Parameters
In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces the rest parameter for function parameters. With the rest parameter, you can create functions that take a variable number of arguments. These arguments are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.

Check out this code:

function howMany(...args) {
  return "You have passed " + args.length + " arguments.";
}
console.log(howMany(0, 1, 2));
console.log(howMany("string", null, [1, 2, 3], { }));
The console would display the strings You have passed 3 arguments. and You have passed 4 arguments..


Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place
ES6 introduces the spread operator, which allows us to expand arrays and other expressions in places where multiple parameters or elements are expected.

The ES5 code below uses apply() to compute the maximum value in an array:

var arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
var maximus = Math.max.apply(null, arr);
maximus would have a value of 89.

We had to use Math.max.apply(null, arr) because Math.max(arr) returns NaN. Math.max() expects comma-separated arguments, but not an array. The spread operator makes this syntax much better to read and maintain.

const arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
const maximus = Math.max(...arr);
maximus would have a value of 89.

...arr returns an unpacked array. In other words, it spreads the array. However, the spread operator only works in-place, like in an argument to a function or in an array literal. The following code will not work:



Use Destructuring Assignment to Extract Values from ObjectsPassed
Destructuring assignment is special syntax introduced in ES6, for neatly assigning values taken directly from an object.

Consider the following ES5 code:

const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };

const name = user.name;
const age = user.age;
name would have a value of the string John Doe, and age would have the number 34.

Here's an equivalent assignment statement using the ES6 destructuring syntax:

const { name, age } = user;
Again, name would have a value of the string John Doe, and age would have the number 34.

Here, the name and age variables will be created and assigned the values of their respective values from the user object. You can see how much cleaner this is.

You can extract as many or few values from the object as you want.



Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from ObjectsPassed
Destructuring allows you to assign a new variable name when extracting values. You can do this by putting the new name after a colon when assigning the value.

Using the same object from the last example:

const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };
Here's how you can give new variable names in the assignment:

const { name: userName, age: userAge } = user;
You may read it as "get the value of user.name and assign it to a new variable named userName" and so on. The value of userName would be the string John Doe, and the value of userAge would be the number 34.

Replace the two assignments with an equivalent destructuring assignment. It should still assign the variables highToday and highTomorrow the values of today and tomorrow from the HIGH_TEMPERATURES object.



Use Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Nested Objects
You can use the same principles from the previous two lessons to destructure values from nested objects.

Using an object similar to previous examples:

const user = {
  johnDoe: { 
    age: 34,
    email: 'johnDoe@freeCodeCamp.com'
  }
};
Here's how to extract the values of object properties and assign them to variables with the same name:

const { johnDoe: { age, email }} = user;
And here's how you can assign an object properties' values to variables with different names:

const { johnDoe: { age: userAge, email: userEmail }} = user;
Replace the two assignments with an equivalent destructuring assignment. It should still assign the variables lowToday and highToday the values of today.low and today.high from the LOCAL_FORECAST object.



Use class Syntax to Define a Constructor Function
The class syntax simply replaces the constructor function creation:

class SpaceShuttle {
  constructor(targetPlanet) {
    this.targetPlanet = targetPlanet;
  }
}
const zeus = new SpaceShuttle('Jupiter');
It should be noted that the class keyword declares a new function, to which a constructor is added. This constructor is invoked when new is called to create a new object.

Note: UpperCamelCase should be used by convention for ES6 class names, as in SpaceShuttle used above.

The constructor method is a special method for creating and initializing an object created with a class. You will learn more about it in the Object Oriented Programming section of the JavaScript Algorithms And Data Structures Certification.



You can obtain values from an object and set the value of a property within an object.
These are classically called getters and setters.

Getter functions are meant to simply return (get) the value of an object's private variable to the user without the user directly accessing the private variable.

Setter functions are meant to modify (set) the value of an object's private variable based on the value passed into the setter function. This change could involve calculations, or even overwriting the previous value completely.

class Book {
  constructor(author) {
    this._author = author;
  }
  // getter
  get writer() {
    return this._author;
  }
  // setter
  set writer(updatedAuthor) {
    this._author = updatedAuthor;
  }
}
const novel = new Book('anonymous');
console.log(novel.writer);
novel.writer = 'newAuthor';
console.log(novel.writer);
The console would display the strings anonymous and newAuthor.

Notice the syntax used to invoke the getter and setter. They do not even look like functions. Getters and setters are important because they hide internal implementation details.

Note: It is convention to precede the name of a private variable with an underscore (_). However, the practice itself does not make a variable private.


Create an Export Fallback with export default
In the export lesson, you learned about the syntax referred to as a named export. This allowed you to make multiple functions and variables available for use in other files.

There is another export syntax you need to know, known as export default. Usually you will use this syntax if only one value is being exported from a file. It is also used to create a fallback value for a file or module.
